
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# `SwissASR`

Participant safety is a big issue in clinical trials and reporting
safety related events to the authorities is mandatory for certain trial
types. One aspect of this is the annual safety report (ASR) which
contains both summary information and listings of safety events. The
`swiss_asr` R package helps in compiling this report.

Provide a dataframe with the given variables and the function will
return a filled out (as far as possible - some things require PI input)
ASR in MS Word format. This could then be forwarded to the PI for
supplimental details, signing and submission to the relevant governing
bodies.

## Example usage

### Installing the package

The package can be installed from CTU Bernâ€™s package universe:

``` r
install.packages('SwissASR', repos = 'https://ctu-bern.r-universe.dev')
```

### Using the package

Load it as usual:

``` r
library(SwissASR)
```

The main function is called `asr`. It has a lot of options, but these
are mostly for generalizability. If your dataframe matches the default
variable names, then there is no need to use most options.

Assuming your dataframe is called `sae_data`, then the function could be
used as follows for the IMP. This will create a file called `tmp.docx`
in your working directory (the filename is controllable via the `target`
option).

``` r
asr(sae_data)
```

Default values are then used for most parameters, which is not ideal. It
is more likely desirable to enter various additional information:

``` r
asr(data,
    target = glue("asr_{sys.Date()}.docx"),
    trial_title = "Example trial name", 
    protocol_number = "1", 
    basec_number = "sdfsgfdhgfdh", 
    snctp_number = "sdfhehre", 
    swissmedic_number = "ergtrjhzt", 
    ec_name = "KEK Bern", 
    product_name = "Example product", 
    sponsor_contact = "Prof. Dr. Example", 
    inst_name_address = "Example institute, Example street, Example City", 
    n_centers_t = "N",         # total      - derive from database
    n_centers_p = "N",         # planned    - from protocol
    n_centers_c = "N",         # closed     - derive from database
    n_centers_o = "N",         # open       - derive from database
    n_pat_t = "default",       # target     - from protocol
    n_pat_e = "default (300)", # enrolled   - derive from database
    n_pat_c = "default",       # complete   - derive from database
    n_pat_p = "default"        # prematurely terminated - derive from database
)
```

It is envisaged that a script be written relatively early in the trial
(before the first ASR is due) with the relevant fixed data (everything
that cannot be derived from the database) and the other elements can be
passed in once derived from the database. The safety data is then used
to compile the tables and listings. The script can then be run each year
to generate the ASR.
